Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today, I’m going
to explain an American science fiction called
“knowing”. Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take
care.
In 1959, a small girl, a recluse called Lucinda
is in school. It’s play time... but she
is away from the other kids...with voices
whispering around her. Their teacher, Miss
Taylor comes to call off the play break. She
had to call Lucinda separately because she
wouldn’t budge.
Next, the teacher is in front of the class,
she reminds them that tomorrow is the school’s
official opening day. She tells them that
the school celebrates its opening with a competition...in
which students draw a picture of what they
believe will happen in the future. The children
are excited and begin different things; except
for Lucinda Embry, who is guided by whispering
voices to fill her paper with a series of
numbers. Before she can write the final numbers,
the allotted time for the task expires, and
Miss Taylor collects the students' drawings.
The works are stored in a time capsule to
be opened 50 years later.
The next day, on the opening of William Dawes
Elementary School, the principal welcomes
everyone and announces the burial of the time
capsule. Fifty years from now their descendants
will dig this time capsule up… After the
time capsule was buried, Miss Taylor notices
that Lucinda has gone from where she was.
The staffs begin calling her name; looking
for her within the school. Miss Taylor goes
down a staircase and hears some noise behind
a door. On opening the door, she finds frightened
Lucinda with blood on her hands. She had written
some things on the door WITH HER FINGERS.
This is the remaining numbers that she hasn’t
finished writing the day before. She looks
very scared, and asks the teacher to make
the whispers stop.
Fast forward to fifty years later, the movie's
present day.
An astrophysicist, John, finds it difficult
to control his depression after losing his
wife. He has trouble believing that there's
meaning in life after his wife has died in
a fire accident. He also has a son, Caleb,
who also struggles to move on.
The next morning, at Caleb’s school, the
current principal announces the unveiling
of the 50-year-old legacy, the time capsule,
that was buried 50 years ago. She calls on
old Miss Taylor, the same teacher from 50
years ago, to do the honours. The capsule
is opened and the children each receive an
envelope. Caleb receives the letter from Lucinda,
and opens to find numbers on the paper instead
of drawing like everyone else. While staring
at the paper, he begins hearing whispers from
everywhere, and notices a figure standing
far away from the school; but it’s gone
when he checks again.
At home, Caleb tries to ask permission to
go to a friend’s place for a sleepover.
While talking, his dad notices the paper from
the school and queries him about it, he wasn’t
supposed to bring it home.
Once John puts Caleb to bed, he starts to
get curious about the list of numbers himself. He accidentally
puts a whiskey glass on top of it, and it
makes a circle around specific numbers. He
puts a set of numbers on a whiteboard and
he quickly realizes that this means September 11 2001...of
course being the attack on the Twin Towers
in New York City which killed 2996 people,
lining up perfectly with these numbers. Certain
that this is just a coincidence, he puts all
the numbers on the whiteboard and investigates
further. He figures out that the list is full
of similar things. Dates, years, and lives
lost at specific tragic events such as explosions,
crashes, earthquakes, hurricanes, etc. These
are all listed in the order that they would
have happened since 1959. He uses red circle
for the date of the tragedy and blue for the
death count. But there are some uncircled
numbers that he can't quite figure out what
they mean.
So the next day, John talks to a colleague,
Phil, about the numbers on the paper. He explains
that every set of numbers matches a major
disaster in date and lives lost; and the predictions
of the numbers have been consistent, even
the date his wife died was also there. John
tells him there are three sets of numbers
that hasn’t happened yet, and one of them
showing...81 people would die somewhere tomorrow.
Phil refuses to believe because it’s too
crazy to be true and thinks that the numbers
are just coincidences, as there are also uncircled
numbers on the paper that apparently has no
meaning. He suspects that someone may be playing
a joke on John.
John begins to search for more details. He
goes to Miss Taylor, who was Lucinda’s school
teacher back in 1959...when the time capsule
was buried. He wants to verify the authenticity
of the letter. Miss Taylor confirms that this
is the original, and tells John about Lucinda
scratching on the door after the burial of
the capsule, and the weird circumstances surrounding
it. John expresses his desire to meet Lucinda,
but it turns out that Lucinda had passed away
due to a drug overdose several years ago.
At home while trying to get some contacts
over the phone, he sees a couple of strange
men pull up to the yard in a car. Caleb goes
up to the car ,and the strange men give caleb
a rock without actually saying anything to
him...which of course freaks John out. He
reminds him to stay away from strangers and
sends him inside the house.
While searching through the net about Lucinda's
death, his sister, Grace, startles him. Grace
wants John to visit his family because he
hasn't talked to his father for a very long
time. But he refuses. John has a difficult
relationship with his parents due to them
being extremely religious and John is an atheist.
The next day, on his way to pick Caleb up
from school, John is stuck in traffic. He
tries to reroute but no alternative route.
Looking at the coordinates on his GPS, he
realises that the uncircled numbers he couldn’t
figure out on the list earlier.... are in
fact coordinates of all the locations where
the tragedies will happen, and he is exactly
at that location. He leaves his car to find
out why the road is blocked. While talking
to the police, the prediction happened; an
aeroplane falls to the ground, several people
burn and die while he tries to help.
He goes back home while still having trouble
believing what just happened. John goes online
to search about the accident only to find
the report stating that 81 people have died
At night, a strange man walks into Caleb's
room. Caleb wakes up and the stranger shows
him a revelation of everything being destroyed,
while the animals are running for their lives.
Caleb screams. His father runs into the room
and carries him from the floor. John sees
a strange man through the window while holding
him up ,and runs out looking for him; but
he’s gone.
The next morning, John and his son trail a
woman and her daughter to the museum. At the
museum, he meets the woman and they introduce
themselves. She’s Diana, Lucinda's daughter.
John later explained to her that he followed
her to ask about her mother. Diana becomes
upset at the mentioning of Lucinda. John explained
that Lucinda’s prediction had come true
and only two remaining...and the last one
will happen 3 days later, on October 19th
and 33 people will die. He needs her help.
However, Diana leaves with her daughter, Abby,
saying she can not help him.
At home, there is news of a possible terrorist
attacks. John searches the location of the
next disaster using the GPS coordinates. He
finds the location, a subway station, and
tries to warn the police.
John goes all the way to the subway station
and chases a guy he thinks is a terrorist
into the train. The police follows them. They
discover that the guy is just a petty CD thief.
The train sets to move but they see a derailed
train heading towards them and there’s chaos
as everyone tries to escape. The train kills
a lot of people fitting the prediction once
again.
The next scene shows the survivors including
John coming out of the debris, and the police
and fire department trying to help.
Returning home, he is surprised to see Diana
and her daughter waiting for him. She proceeds
to tell John that the last disaster left on
the list is on October 19th, the same day
Lucinda said she's supposed to die. Diana
didn't want to talk with him about it in the
first place because she hated the idea of
knowing when one would die
Diana decides to bring John to Lucinda’s
former home, an old abandoned building where
her mother used to hide from everyone around
her. As they pull up, they realize that the
last numbers on the list which followed the
date October 19th weren't the numbers 33,
but the backwards letters of E E which they
think are the initials of a name.
At the house, John searches Lucinda's bedroom,
where they found out that “EE” in the
last prediction means everyone will die. He
also finds many of those black stones in the
house, like the one Caleb received.
Outside, Caleb and Abby are in the car waiting
for them to return, they both start to hear
whispers and see those strange figures. The
whispers call on them to come. Poor Abby almost
got taken but Caleb uses the car horn to call
attention. John and Diana run to them but
the strangers were gone. John sites one of
them and runs after them. Finally catching
up to the man, he asks what he wants but the
man opens his mouth and huge bright light
comes from it and he disappears.
They return to John's house and can’t
believe her mother predicted the death of
everyone tomorrow and this could be their
last night together.
The next morning, John wakes up seeing Abby's
drawing
Suddenly, he realizes that the final disaster
may have something to do with the sun
John finds that the last prediction,
which is tomorrow, was in tandem with a research
he had done about super flares from the sun
hitting the rest of the solar system and destroying
everything.
He quickly goes to the observatory and checks
on the recent readings of the sun... which
shows abnormal levels of solar radiation.
He thinks that a large solar flare may occur
very soon, and that may be the cause of humanity's
destruction
Back at John's house, they prepare to go hide
in an underground cave where Diana used to
play as a child. It’s time to go. He goes
to call Caleb, but finds him at his desk writing
a similar list that Lucinda did. From what
Caleb was writing, he gets the sense that
Lucinda's writing on the door fifty years
ago was fundamental to the last prediction,
so they go back to the school. He removes
the particular door, takes it home and begins
to unveil the writing. Diana is impatient
and wants to get to the caves before doom
comes, so she steals the kids and drives to
the caves. Jon finally gets the numbers from
the door, and he assumes this is the coordinate
where they can survive this disaster...but
when he comes out, everyone has gone which
prompts him to chase them from behind. Diana
stops at a gas station. At the station, she
watches the government announce that there’s
trouble coming and everyone should take shelter,
preferably underground. Diana goes to call
John to tell him where they are
Jon tells her that the "safe haven" might
be at Lucinda’s old
home according to the coordinates, but she’s
scared and refuses to go there.
While still on the phone, the strangers steal
her car with the kids inside. She also steals
a car ,and tries to follow them...but runs
into a half truck. She breaks her neck, and
later dies in front of Jon...at exactly twelve
midnight according to her mother’s prediction.
Jon drives to Lucinda's abandoned home,and
follows a car-ridden path into the bush. He
finds many of those black stones there. Finally,
he sees one of the strange men and threatens
to shoot.
Caleb stops him and tells his father that
the strangers have been protecting them this
whole time, and that they must go with them
in order to be saved. It turns out that they
were the ones who sent the messages about
the major disasters trying to save humanity
from being completely destroyed. They then
reveal an ark up in the sky. Jon is astonished.
It’s time to go... but the strangers will
only allow the children go with them. Only
the chosen must go. Caleb cries. Caleb and
his father say their last goodbyes. And the
men turn to shining bodies, and the ark leaves.
Up in the sky, many of such ark had come to
several other places on earth, they are also
leaving. Jon wakes up in the morning on that
ground. He navigates the now rowdy city to
his family house. His sister meets him with
a hug and he tells her...Caleb is safe. He
enters the house and hugs his father, then
his mother, and his sister joins for a group
hug. The sun flare starts to destroy everything,
and takes them too in their group hug. As
the movie ends, the ark drops the children
at different places and goes away. Caleb and
Abby run through the field towards a huge
tree.
Now, for the explanation.
At the end of the movie, the beings who have
been whispering into Lucinda’s and Caleb's
ears finally reveal themselves as a more evolved
alien race, who have been selecting few humans
and animals to save from the imminent destruction
of the planet.
Since there were other spaceships leaving
the earth, it’s possible that these humanoids
whispered the same messages to other people
around the world.
So, why were only the children taken? Aren't
children too young to take care of themselves?
We can assume that the other children were
children with various types of knowledge and
skills. Maybe the whisper people chose some
specific children who would be great at working
together. They took children because they
wanted a fresh start. Adults would just go
to the new planet and try to recreate what
they had on earth and end up destroying the
planet. Children are more of a blank canvas,
and will have a more open-mind as they grow
older...and learn to understand why the aliens
do this. It's also entirely possible the aliens
don't simply leave the children there to fend
for themselves, it's possible they stay in
the skies and observe, and then come down
to the planet to teach the kids how to build
and how to survive.
That’s my explanation for the movie.
Subscribe for more videos like this. Turn
on the notifications and leave a like to help
the channel out. Thank you for watching.